The Natural Language Toolkit (NLTK) is a platform used for building programs for text analysis.
One of the more powerful aspects of the NLTK module is the Part of Speech tagging.


some quick vocabulary:
Corpus : Body of text, singular. Corpora is the plural of this.
Lexicon : Words and their meanings.
Token : Each “entity” that is a part of whatever was split up based on rules.
In corpus linguistics, part-of-speech tagging (POS tagging or PoS tagging or POST), also called grammatical tagging or word-category disambiguation.


Basically, the goal of a POS tagger is to assign linguistic (mostly grammatical) information to sub-sentential units.
Such units are called tokens and, most of the time, correspond to words and symbols (e.g. punctuation).


Text may contain stop words like ‘the’, ‘is’, ‘are’. Stop words can be filtered from the text to be processed.
There is no universal list of stop words in nlp research, however the nltk module contains a list of stop words.

CC coordinating conjunction
CD cardinal digit
DT determiner
EX existential there (like: “there is” … think of it like “there exists”)
FW foreign word
IN preposition/subordinating conjunction
JJ adjective – ‘big’
JJR adjective, comparative – ‘bigger’
JJS adjective, superlative – ‘biggest’
LS list marker 1)
MD modal – could, will
NN noun, singular ‘- desk’
NNS noun plural – ‘desks’
NNP proper noun, singular – ‘Harrison’
NNPS proper noun, plural – ‘Americans’
PDT predeterminer – ‘all the kids’
POS possessive ending parent’s
PRP personal pronoun –  I, he, she
PRP$ possessive pronoun – my, his, hers
RB adverb – very, silently,
RBR adverb, comparative – better
RBS adverb, superlative – best
RP particle – give up
TO – to go ‘to’ the store.
UH interjection – errrrrrrrm
VB verb, base form – take
VBD verb, past tense – took
VBG verb, gerund/present participle – taking
VBN verb, past participle – taken
VBP verb, sing. present, non-3d – take
VBZ verb, 3rd person sing. present – takes
WDT wh-determiner – which
WP wh-pronoun – who, what
WP$ possessive wh-pronoun, eg- whose
WRB wh-adverb, eg- where, when